# LLMs-for-RTL-Design

Evaluate LLMs on their ability to analyse a design description in VHDL and also their ability to generate test benches for the design description provided. 

## Project description

Project Name: Evaluating the Performance of Large Language Models for Design Validation
Supervisor: Prof. Dr.-Ing. Goerschwin Fey
Start date: 15.11.2023
End date: 15.02.2024

## Folder structure 

chatGPT_3_5 :       Contains testbenches generated by ChatGPT-3.5 including reference designs

chatGPT_4:          Contains testbenches generated by ChatGPT-4 including reference designs

codellama13b:       Contains testbenches generated by CodeLlama 13B Instruct including reference designs

Gemini_Pro:         Contains testbenches generated by Gemini Pro including reference designs

reference_design:   Contains reference designs and testbenches

mutation_design:    Contains mutant designs. Both Designs with no trace of device identifier and designs with faults.

prompts_responses:  Contains docx file with prompts fed to the LLMs and corresponding responses

Data_Table:         Contains numerics for observations 

scripts:            Contains script to simulate the VHDL design and test bench

## Tools used
GHDL: Simulate VHDL

GTKWave: Visualize Waveform generated from GHDL

Yosys: Sinthesyze the VHDL. To determine design complexity (No. gates / No. Flipflops)

Xilinx Vivado ML: Occesionally simulate designs 

## Simunation Process
To simulate the system need GHDL, GTKWave, yosys and yosys plugins for GHDL installed. Also require python3 to run the provided script. 

If the simulyte.py in not added to the path, it has to be present in the respective device folder. and a test bench can be run as follows:

```
python3 simulate.py testbench_name -s 10000ns -g 
```
-s is optional, to set simulation end time default is 1000ns
-g is optional, if present GHDL generated .ghw file in work directory will open via GTKWave

## Data Recording / Observation Method

Details of observation methodology is discussed on the paper.


